Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers and welcome to another episode of the pokopia season. My name is Al
Kevin: Yeah, my name is Kevin.
Al: And we're here today to talk about pokopia
Kevin: Oh, co-opia.
Al: And I guess some other games as well, but you know
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, that's be real.
Kevin: I guess I heard other games still are releasing. I don't know why, but.
Kevin: But, uh, here we are.
Al: This episode I thought we would delve deep into
Al: this episode, so we're going to talk about how that works and I've been playing around
Kevin: Then do it well and understand how it works.
Al: a lot with that, I've been enjoying that, so we're going to talk about the things that make it quite
Al: a deep farming system, certainly compared to what I was expecting, because I don't remember
Al: doing farming and dragoncrest builders bye
Kevin: Yeah. It was more automated. It was in there. It required even less thought though.
Al: Welcome to that we'll come to that we do have some news we also have a
Al: piece of feedback but first of all Kevin what have you been up to?
Kevin: I'm not going to lie, I tried last week, this week, it's on the Procopia, it is, I don't know, help somebody help me send help, don't send help actually, send help so I can play more.
Al: [laughter]
Kevin: Okay, I hit credits technically last night, I could've hit it like a week ago, almost a couple of years ago, but I've been puttin' around.
Al: Yeah, you were you you were hitting like level seven and eight in some of the areas and it's like I was
Kevin: Yeah, I was
Al: I take credits
Al: before you
Al: but
Kevin: Look you hear but the smart thing would have been to hit credits earlier because of the post game thing you get
Al: Yeah. Well.
Kevin: But
Kevin: Some of those unlocks. I really needed to get that plaster wall now. I really really really needed it
Kevin: Yeah, I don't have a foundation block. Oh it hurts. It's the last thing I need
Kevin: I feel like to really let loose but but here we are
Al: So many, so many to do.
Kevin: Yeah, what about you? How are you in Pupopia?
Al: I've hit credits as well.
Al: And I've not done a huge amount since hitting credits
Al: just because life gets in the way.
Al: But I'm having to think about how I want to go forward.
Al: Because there's a bunch of things you can do.
Al: So yeah, I'm currently--
Kevin: Yeah, shot.
Al: Today I was just getting, I don't want to say what it is.
Al: Because I don't want to spoil things, but there's our specific electricity related thing that I was getting today that will make things much tidier. Let's put it that way.
Kevin: Okay, okay, you know, we probably should have discussed this before, but where do we enjoy the line spoilers because the week's game's been out, you know, another week
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, obviously not.
Kevin: Obviously, we're not gonna give the story spoilers, but like are we gonna talk about all the areas are we? Is that open game?
Kevin: Where do you want to draw the line here?
Al: So focusing on farming this week, let's just talk about everything farming. Let's, we can talk about the, you know, the name of the second place, which does give you some farming stuff.
Al: And that's probably about all we need to do otherwise. I just like, I know, yeah, it's been out a couple of weeks now, but there's still probably a lot of people playing slower than us, so.
Kevin: Okay, yeah, yeah, I know there's still folks. Yeah, and some who listen like I get it. That's why I'm asking me. Yeah, we probably don't have to discuss the fourth place
Al: I eventually will do a story episode. I'm sure at some point, we'll talk about that.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: I agree. The one, the one, the one I posted about presumably.
Kevin: What what pains me is we can't talk about the best character in the game and you know the one the one in the fourth area and
Kevin: down
Kevin: incredible character.
Kevin: But okay, so yeah, I mean, yeah, yeah, I mean it just just hands down design
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: It's great anyways, um, we won't talk about that. Okay
Al: We'll talk about it in a future episode. There's plenty of time.
Kevin: Yeah, we'll get there. Let's pull this is the PCoph. Yes. Um, okay
Al: >> So yeah, there's that, I think that's all I've been doing game wise.
Al: However, I did last night when we were meant to be recording.
Al: I instead went to the cinema to see Project Hail Mary.
Al: So that's the new Ryan Gosling sci-fi film that was written by the guy who wrote
Kevin: - Oh, that's a good.
Al: the Martian just in case people aren't aware of what lies.
Al: I enjoyed it, yeah, I hadn't, yeah, it's the same guy.
Kevin: Oh, is that the same guy? Cool.
Al: I haven't read the book, so Stuart can complain to me about not reading the book.
Al: Maybe others, I don't know, but I really enjoyed the film.
Al: It was very good, certainly, I feel like it could be one of those ones you come back to
Al: time and time again and just enjoy watching it.
Al: And especially rewatching it, knowing what the story is I think will make the start of it more
Kevin: Mm-hmm. That's good
Al: interesting, I think it's one of those films that I've rewatch will, it's not like one of the
Al: films where it's like when you know what the film story is, you're like, oh, well, now
Al: I don't care about watching it again, right?
Al: Like, it's the sort of thing where I think you can appreciate more of it when you know
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, uh-huh.
Al: the film story going in, but yeah,
Kevin: So the important question, I'm semi familiar with the plot and everything. I haven't watched it yet,
Kevin: but the big debate, do you feel like they spoiled it? Do you think it would be a better experience
Kevin: if they didn't show off the thing.
Al: I think the best experience is going in knowing nothing about the film, but the problem is I don't
Kevin: Okay.
Al: think people would go to see it without knowing something about the film. So if you haven't, if you
Al: like sci-fi films and you haven't seen anything about this film, I would recommend going in
Al: blind. I think that that would do the best. There are a few bits and pieces that I think would be slightly
Kevin: Okay, yeah, yeah, because I think the initial premise is engaging enough right where you do
Al: better, not knowing them, but I don't think it ruins anything.
Kevin: I don't know what they call, but basically there's there's crisis and you need to send
Kevin: a guy out to figure out what's going on in space that's going to destroy life, right?
Al: Yes
Kevin: And this specific like that's engaging enough, right?
Al: Yeah, but there's even there's even stuff around that I think I think I would even have preferred
Al: Not even knowing that like the way that the film starts it it kind of starts up like a mystery
Kevin: Really? Mm. Not all that.
Al: And and I feel it's you know because it's like it's start the fart the very first scene is like oh
Al: Why is this person here and it's like you don't know everything?
Al: But you do know some stuff because you've seen the trailer, right?
Al: You know some stuff about why you don't know everything
Kevin: right right yeah okay okay okay okay sure sure well that just makes it extra
Al: but you do know some stuff and it's like I feel like it I do feel like the best experience would be going in completely
Kevin: worse when the trailers don't watch the trailers if you haven't seen the movie
Al: I just, well, I mean, I, like I totally, I totally think I get why they put that thing in the trailer,
Kevin: yeah I get it too yeah the kind of is
Al: like I don't think it's our spoiler, right? Because it's like, you know, 30 minutes into the 20, 25 minutes into
Kevin: we really that that early okay well I just from the plot elements I know like
Al: the film. It's like a pretty fun, yeah, it's a really fundamental part of the whole story.
Kevin: like in that initial premise alone is is enough for a story but then you throw in the other
Kevin: element and it's like oh we were going place it but okay but all right that's it but regardless
Al: Yeah, maybe maybe
Kevin: like you said the best thing is just completely blank right so yeah that's fair what
Al: I think so I think yeah if you like sci-fi films go watch it like it's a it's a good it's a good sci-fi film. I you know, it's very good and
Kevin: those look like a good one
Al: I
Al: Think there are very few actors that could pull off the amount of screen time
Al: You get
Al: With Ryan Gosling
Kevin: Yeah, yeah a solo movie actors
Al: And he does it he does it really well. Yeah, he he
Kevin: Option B is Tom Hanks
Al: you
Al: Build for this role probably
Kevin: Yeah, probably that that hurts me, but it's getting a little
Al: Happens to everyone all right, so that's what we have been up to
Kevin: So they say
Al: Next up we have some feedback. So we got another email from shivers. Thank you shivers for your feedback
Kevin: Ooh!
Al: The subject of this
Al: Email was clint really why does
Al: dis concerned it do this we finally get an adult character to woo and you give us
Al: clint quit trolling me why does he deny the love marney and I share and then a sentence that
Kevin: [laughing]
Al: I'm not going to say just because it's a little bit risky for a family-friendly podcast.
Kevin: Ha ha ha, send it to me though.
Al: It's not super bad it's just a little bit it's in the it's in the show notes Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, text to me though, I'll do to it.
Kevin: Okay, I'll go on and see.
Al: Sadly, a common problem with farming/life sims, we can
Al: only date the young adults, but when you're 43 year old gamer like me, those are just children. I suppose Stardew isn't as guilty of this as the story of season's harvestman at least.
Al: Thanks for the star sand island update, I'm looking forward to the 1.0, I'll wait until then, however you two had me cracking up at Stardew for weeps.
Al: Is we'd not a derogatory term in Scotland. Have a good harvest everyone, shiver, shivers, weeping in Wisconsin.
Kevin: [laughs]
Al: Um, I think there's a couple of things there, the point about.
Al: So many romanceables and farming gains being young is absolutely a thing. And it's a thing we've definitely, I've definitely noticed and I'm sure we've talked about it as well.
Kevin: Yeah, the tide is starting to turn just just the hair, not as much as we like, but it's
Al: Yeah, I think, I think it depends. I think his point about the story of seasons and harvestman is very fair, like they still very much feel focused on the, the more, you know,
Kevin: getting that it's big knowledge.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah. And they're the big ones. You're right. Yeah. Young 20s. Yeah. Very true.
Al: sort of thing. I'm, if you're lucky, at least we'd have any like clearly 13 year olds anymore.
Kevin: Yeah. You're right. Turning those kinds of going through. The other way. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: So yeah, they definitely still have that issue for sure. I think Carl Island did a little bit better. There's definitely a few romanceables and Carl Island feel like they're a little bit older.
Kevin: Yeah. It's a Pacha added one in.
Al: But yeah, I want them to go further.
Al: Let's get some grannies.
Al: You can romance.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah roots of Pacha added like a genuine older gent like silver box like older dude
Kevin: But it's just one. Oh, so again like we still have a long way to go, but it's being acknowledged like I said
Al: I mean the solution to this is just allowing you to romance anyone in the games because like it's not like the games are lacking for older characters is just that they decide that those are the ones you can't romance.
Kevin: But it's very good point though
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Yeah, you're right
Kevin: Well shippers in in reference to that sent
Kevin: out didn't say there's mods for that I'm sure there is oh yeah it's it's come
Al: Um, in terms of we being a derogatory term, I think it can be a derogatory term, but I don't think it has to be a derogatory term, right?
Kevin: around like the weaves have taken ownership of it but you're still a freaking
Al: And if you think, and if you think I was using it in a derogatory, in a derogatory way during that episode, then feel free, like it doesn't really change what I'm saying, right?
Kevin: still weeb but you own it
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, exactly. That is correct. Choose your own
Al: so thank you shivers for your feet
Al: back if you to want to send us feedback you can do that from our website harvestseason.com or
Al: replying to the
Al: podcast on tumblr and blue sky at ths pod we will read your feedback out on the podcast
Kevin: Good. Like that. Exciting. I guess so.
Al: should begin to some news
Al: first up we have cozy sanctuary have announced that their release date is the 16th of April
Kevin: Okay, wait, wait. Yeah, um, sorry. Oh, just look, I know we live it, but the name problem
Kevin: hurts me every time. Um, these are very cute animals. I'll say that. Um, at least the...
Al: Yeah, this one, this one was, this was a rusty like.
Kevin: Oh, okay, okay. Um, yeah, I'm good for, yeah, good for you. You know, this is the one genre I'm not
Kevin: worried about, like, them coming out. I would think, right? But uh, whatever you, I guess,
Kevin: made it. Um, yeah, I don't know what to say. I'm like... Yeah, it is. Um, yeah, I mean, I'm just, you, we all know. I'm not a rusty, like,
Al: Any game that gets to release is success, right?
Kevin: guy, um, but whatever, it's fine. Um, good for you, cozy, sanctuary. You're very cute. See, I want to pet
Kevin: and clean them, but I don't want to do all my best top. I'm doing other stuff. This...
Al: Well, here's the same developer's released a couple years ago or no this year.
Al: Like a month ago, they released a game called Sushi Cat Terror Defense.
Kevin: Oh, that sounds good. It also sounds like battle with cats. I kind of went out of his own checking. Oh my gosh, that looks, oh, that's 3d. Oh dang, that looks, oh man, that's.
Kevin: Roy, it's roguelike too. It's a pretty demo, an hour talking.
Kevin: Uh, when, when do we get the rusty like tower defense? Don't, no, don't do that. That sounds scary. You don't. That's dangerous.
Al: Oh goodness, that's terrible.
Al: Next, sky harvest have released their rainmaker update. This allows you to automate your crop
Al: watering. There's a rainmaker. The rainmaker is a powerful battery-powered device. The water's
Al: crops in a 7x7 area by summoning rainclothes directly.
Kevin: That's, you know, it's a little more imaginative than your standing sprinkler.
Kevin: I'll say that's cool.
Kevin: And it looks like it kind of follows you around as you move.
Kevin: So that's, that's cool.
Kevin: Um, and I got to do batteries.
Kevin: Last spend in game, wait, what?
Al: Oh you got a chart you got it oh yeah that must be the wrong way round right water it does
Kevin: Why does the advanced battery last list?
Kevin: I would hope so, but I'm going to pause fertilizer.
Al: apply fertilizer as well as watering and it triples crop production but like well it's not very
Kevin: Okay, you know, that's probably fair, I guess.
Al: advanced if it lasts half the time does choice the stuff but half the time I don't know
Kevin: [laughs]
Al: interesting different way of doing that rather than just doing a sprinkler which is interesting
Al: next we have an update from Sprout Valley as well this is the quality of life and controller
Al: fixes update a very catchy name if I you know I have to say this adds a dedicated delete spray
Kevin: It's a...
Al: button in the spray selection menu it allows you to remove a placed spray directly okay
Kevin: Wait yeah, I don't know what that means, but okay
Al: I can I can't yeah I can't remember I must be a sprinkler or something like that I can't
Al: remember it's been a while since I played this game and then you've also got controls and
Al: rebinding so there you go useful we like controller rebinding and Kevin we've also got news about
Kevin: - Yeah, that's good, a lot.
Kevin: - Yeah.
Al: the Dave the Diver in the Jungle DLC we now know that it I know we now know it's really
Al: releasing on the 18th of June and they've released a new trailer for it as well
Kevin: Okay, so this is interesting trailer cuz it's starting off with the three historic creature on the beach
Al: Exploding.
Kevin: Exploding yeah, also what this is like trailers in 3d basically why is there chipmunk flossing?
Al: Why not?
Kevin: Yeah, oh my god
Al: There's a duck hunt, minigame, looks like you've got a new restaurant.
Kevin: There's duck on there's there's a lot of guns
Kevin: Oh, my wow, there's more dancing animals than I would have anticipated
Al: [laughs]
Kevin: This looks substantial. I'll say that
Kevin: More oh my gosh that shark is like literally spinning a pedo diving at you
Kevin: That is the horrors of the deep continue to be horrifying
Kevin: That late effort is that lady an existing character. I cannot remember
Al: I don't think so because this looks like if you look at Dave's clothes, this looks like
Kevin: I'm not going to say that she has many.
Al: you're already in the jungle.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah, that's true. So yeah, get excited to dive again, which, you know, I actually would be using him, assuming this isn't limited.
Al: Yeah, I don't think this is going to be a limited one. I think this will it will cost money, but it's not going to be
Kevin: Yeah, I don't either.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm surprised it took him this long, but yeah, game devs are doing yes.
Al: The content of this expansion is only accessible after the completion.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: Now, you know, that would make sense considering there's prehistoric beasts at the start.
Al: All right. We also have one new game announced because they love to troll me. This is not a new
Kevin: Yeah, and that's why, but, uh...
Al: study of seasons. It is a new harvestman. This is harvestman echoes of Terradia. No, Terradia.
Kevin: Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha not too rare yeah that's a different game there might be echoes
Kevin: too radio
Al: So, this was just announced.
Al: We don't have a huge amount of information. We do know that it's coming to switch switch to PS5 Xbox Series X and S and Steam.
Al: We don't know when. I feel like considering how early in the year that this is being announced that it's probably going to come out this year, but you never know.
Al: You know, we did just get a Pokemon game being announced for next year. So, but I guess we'll see.
Al: and it looks like it's going to be similar to
Al: the games before Harvestman, Home Sweet Home, being one world and I cannot remember the one after
Kevin: I don't remember, I'm reading the description, or at least from the, we're getting here, there's wolves, it's literally go tame a pack of wolves, I guess.
Al: Winds of Anthos, that was the other one, because they say visiting various towns, the protagonists will help solve the issues plaguing each one.
Al: Earthquakes in quarrytop, storms in tide wind, fading light in Maple Hill.
Al: Besides the local village issues, there is a mysterious mist emitting from the forest of echoes.
Al: In between all the world-saving stuff, take care of your farm and raise animals with a knowledge game from the friends made along the way.
Al: You'll find new ways to grow crops and explore the world.
Al: Think about why I don't think I like the idea of this one, and obviously the previous one, Winds of Anthos, and to an extent one world.
Al: I liked some of what one world did, but not all of it.
Al: And why I like tomes we home.
Al: And I think it's the exploration part of it.
Al: I think having a game that is meant to be a cozy, run-your-farm type game.
Al: And also have your progressing through a world moving from town to town and continuing to do things.
Al: I don't think those things work well together.
Al: I think the reason that the exploration works is if you are doing, say, let's take the stardew mines, for example.
Al: That's exploration.
Al: But I'm going to go down, I'm going to go five levels down, and then I can save my progress.
Al: at the fifth level and then I go back to my farm and go to sleep and then wake up.
Al: and do my normal things and then go back to where I was exploring whereas the way that these
Al: games work is you're taking your farm with you and there's just something about that that doesn't
Al: you never really learn the layout of anything because you're constantly moving on so you don't get that
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Al: regular daily grind that you otherwise would get whereas home sweet home had that right there was still
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: story to be done there was still a little bit of exploration there were still places to visit but
Al: because you had your whole...
Al: farm, then that was still there.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, no, I get it. And I mean, yeah, the layout does the practical stuff, but even like, you know,
Kevin: most cottage or farming type games, it's more about expansion and building up, right? Like starting from
Al: Mm-hmm
Kevin: nothing and getting bigger. And you can't really do that. If you're moving, you're, you know, picking up your
Kevin: farm and moving it around all over the place, um, releasing on that, not to the same degree. Um, so I get, you know,
Kevin: That's fair. I can see why that won't.
Al: Yeah, exactly. So I don't know, maybe they'll finally figure out, and I'll actually enjoy this one,
Al: who knows, I'm just a little bit wary about that. I suspect it'll be more, it'll be more
Kevin: What if...
Al: winds of Anthos than it is home sweet home, and I'm sad about that.
Kevin: Yeah, and it's unfortunate, but what if the wool scary you're farmed for you?
Kevin: [giggling]
Kevin: Mush, mush.
Al: I mean, that would be a positive, but it doesn't really solve the problem, right?
Kevin: Then saw the problem.
Kevin: No, no.
Al: There are 10 new love interests. We five all new bachelors and five all new bachelorets,
Al: Marry, whoever your heart desires, new exploration abilities, jump to hidden locations and
Kevin: Unless they're old.
Al: claim ladders and vines to reach new heights and gather resources. Did we not have jumping in
Al: before the, that explains it as, as we figured out at the end of last year, the games that I
Al: like just now are ones where you can jump in. So clearly that's the problem. So maybe,
Al: Maybe we're finally sorted.
Kevin: - Oh, yeah, this is at the answer.
Al: Animal companion system bring your pets and animals on the road to adventure together each animal companion and mount special abilities to help you explore uncharted territory untamed wilderness evade and escape wild animals like wolves bears and tigers keep your wits about you and don't let yourself get caught or you'll lose items you've collected and then up back at your farm obtain nautical sounds like it.
Al: Obtain nautical charts to locate remote islands to treasure hunt and befriend rare animals that you won't find on the mainland have you have you got boat we got boating we got boats we got wind waker in this game.
Kevin: or a C-mount dolphin whale, big turtle.
Al: Maybe look if we're got if we've got we've got some some wind waker in our harvest moon that definitely will make it better.
Kevin: Get out of here, Pokemon.
Kevin: This is our real wind and waves game.
Al: And then they obviously have to have a terrible name for something in the game so we've got to make everyone happily are help villagers and contribute to the development of to redia to gain happily are.
Kevin: I'll hit that.
Al: Oh my word how are they so bad words and names right like that was this is the thing not to me that was the entire thing they did with harvest moon before.
Kevin: I don't like it, that's no good.
Al: With a decided to start making the games like that that was all they did was the the words and now they're really bad at the words.
Kevin: Yeah. Oh, oh, oh.
Al: So yeah, I guess we'll see how that goes over so we don't have a release date I suspect i'm going to put it out there i'm going to predict.
Al: August but we'll see.
Kevin: - Sure, why not.
Al: their, I suspect the happilia is just
Al: like the, the happiness progress that you got in, um, in home sweet home. It was fine. I didn't
Kevin: Yes, I hate it.
Al: dislike that. That was fine. Very visible way to show how you're improving things, but why they have
Al: to give it a bad name. I have no idea. So yeah, there we are. Tune in in the future to find out what
Kevin: Epileus sounds like something you don't want, and you need to try to buy out of the tree.
Al: you. All right. That's all the news. Whoo.
Kevin: Tune in, see how much epileus you can
Kevin: Oh, we did it. All right.
Kevin: War of each other. We got a total opia.
Al: So, we're going to talk about the farming and the cooking in Pocopia, specifically.
Al: We're going to talk a bit farming and then I realized well, cooking is so kind of tied
Al: into farming that I feel like we need to talk about both of them.
Kevin: There's a few, there's a few other things I would say like the Pokemon abilities are kind of tied in and the food, yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, we'll talk, yeah, yeah, of course, we'll talk about them as well, yeah, yeah.
Al: So I guess, first up, if you don't want any spoilers about anything to do with farming,
Al: - Mm-hmm.
Al: - That's a bit weird, but go away and finish the game and then come back.
Kevin: Yeah, you're probably fine
Al: [laughs]
Al: We're not going to talk about this story.
Al: We're just going to talk about farming.
Al: So, the farming, I guess, you start off with it being quite simple and I didn't think
Al: there was going to be a lot to talk about, because it just seemed like it was, you tell
Al: the ground, you put your crops in, you water, it grows, and that was it, right?
Al: There's a lot more to it than that and I think a lot of the, a lot of the complexity
Al: comes down to actually watering, I think, in my experience.
Al: So there's so many different ways to water your crops and actually figuring out which
Al: one is the most efficient is not quite clear, right?
Al: Like, I think there's actually probably multiple answers you could come to with watering
Al: and what would be an ideal setup?
Al: Unlike most games, it's not like well this is clearly the way to go and if you do anything else you're just wasting time because in this case there's many different ways.
Al: You start out with just the using water gun, right?
Al: You've got water gun quite early in the game and you can use that to water your plants.
Al: But then very quickly you find out that you can just have streams of water and they can water your crops, right?
Al: right if you've got if you have.
Kevin: Yeah, if a water tile touches.
Al: Yeah, and it can be any of the the eight points around it can be the coroner as well. So
Kevin: Yeah, 3D is crazy.
Al: Yeah, oh, yes, yes, it's not just eight. It's it's it's more than that. Well, how many is that then?
Kevin: Yeah, you can you can get one or underneath and it'll work.
Al: Three by three by three is three seven. So 26 is that right?
Kevin: Nice. Yeah, I think so.
Al: Which is fun. We'll get back to that when we talk about spring spring clothes as well, but that means that like
Al: quite early on I was doing just like lots of channels of water and then it's not the most efficient. You're kind of having essentially like
Al: You've got two rows of crops and then one crook one row of water on either side of them and then two and then one then two then one
Al: But it feels reasonably efficient certainly for early game and it means you don't have to worry about watering
Al: But the other thing you can do quite early on is is just house your water Pokemon near it and they will just water the crops, which is really nice
Kevin: Yeah, so so that ties into the the general Pokemon ability stuff, which I didn't even talk about last week really, but oh
Kevin: There's there's two ways of going about it wind you some in your Pokemon or ask them to follow you around and
Kevin: Basically point and hey, you do the thing and they'll do that. It's it's pretty good generally like the
Kevin: logic they use
Kevin: But they will also randomly just do it as they're puts in around the village or whatever. Um
Kevin: And and that's where we can start getting efficient. That's where you can start building the cage
Al: Yeah, and I think I was initially going to be annoyed by this because it's like, yes,
Kevin: To give you water Pokemon
Al: you can kind of like tell them to do it right now if you want. But if the whole point of
Al: automation is to not have to do that, right? And so I was like, well, it's annoying that they'll
Al: just do it at some point. But then I realized it's not that annoying because like, it's running
Al: real time. So they will do it at some point today, right? Like you don't need to worry about
Al: Exactly when they do it, it doesn't last.
Al: The point is that they're just going to do at some point if they live next.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, basically. And here's the the extra one. So we can start getting really creative.
Kevin: It's not the only ability that affects wormy.
Kevin: Grass Pokemon have the grow ability, which basically speeds up
Kevin: whatever crop or plant. This isn't just crop to affect your trees and flowers and everything too.
Kevin: The next stage of of growth like immediately. You only get one a day.
Kevin: Like just one, you can't even snack the grow ability. But if you bring Boba sort over to your crop,
Kevin: it will that that specific tile will speed up and start sparkling and hit the next stage of growth immediately.
Al: Yeah, and you say you only get one a day, but that does essentially double how quickly you can get to crops.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: And I think most of the crops, most of the crops, I think you get every two days after they're fully grown.
Al: The wheat is different because it goes back to just a seed when you harvest wheat.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: But the other ones are still fully grown plants, or maybe potato as well.
Al: but tomato and beans, which are the important ones.
Al: That and wheat is also important, but those two, I'm pretty sure you would get basically every day you'd get them if you have the grow ability used every day.
Kevin: Yeah, I think so because most days I can check in on an area and the crops have grown
Kevin: Yeah, you just like if it's enough time. It's usually the full because you can
Kevin: The props will generate one to three
Kevin: You know, lobster plant from tomatoes in the beans
Kevin: So I don't know if it's the same cycle as the wheat to like reach full growth, but anyways
Kevin: Yeah, if you use the grow ability, you'll get another crop in there immediately, but
Kevin: well, yeah, basically because of that you it's very easy and that's what I've been doing
Kevin: I haven't dedicated it anything to farming per se. I haven't done a setup
Kevin: As the game gives you in my opinion a decent handful of areas
Kevin: and across the different zones
Kevin: Excuse me where there's plots of lots of crops already growing or just still clearly marked and you know
Kevin: Especially in the rocky ridges area of the year. We're going to talk about where the cooking is like there's a big
Kevin: Like what is it four or five little mini plots surrounded by water so they're basically a water frequently
Al: Yeah.
Kevin: And there's already crops growing
Al: It was a nice little area where if you break a few blocks, you end up with this really nice
Al: stream that goes down, you know, three different ways to, to water all these crops. It was,
Al: it was quite nice. I think that was the point where I realized, oh, there's a lot you can do with
Al: this water. And also, that was the, in that area, you have just a random sprinkler sitting around
Kevin: Yeah, yeah
Al: which is the other, the final way that you can water them, which is the sprinkler does. Now,
Al: it's not as simple as five by five. It does a diamond shape five away in the middle. So it's five
Al: by five, it's five away from the sprinkler in four directions. And then it kind of like goes
Kevin: It's the water gun bus shape expanded
Al: together in a diamond shape. So you end up
Al: with, it is, it is the plus shape. Yeah, but it's bigger. Um, and so it is, it is, it's,
Kevin: Which I hate by the way
Kevin: Hey, so
Al: it's an it's, it's a choice. Let's put it that way. Uh, the, but the interesting thing about
Kevin: aggravating
Kevin: Yeah, it's a choice. Yeah, I get the logic, but I hate it though
Al: the sprinklers and so I have done a setup and I'm, I'm trying to think of better ways to do it
Al: because I feel like I'm very close to having a really nice set up.
Al: But because you've got the sprinkler you can have I can't even remember how many crops that would be
Kevin: at least for.
Al: in each of them, so 40. Is that 60 crops?
Kevin: It doesn't sound right, the fly by five would be 25, it would be, I think it's, how many
Kevin: maybe I put myself out here, really, you know.
Al: It's 60 crops, yeah. Yeah, because you've got five, four, three, two, one, four,
Al: which is 15, four times, which is 60 crops. But technically you can actually do 61 crops.
Al: In fact, no, it's even more complicated than that, but let's, let's get to the
Al: animator because I've, so if you want a simple layout, you can do the, the diamond layout
Al: around this sprinkler with the sprinkler in the middle and a
Al: water block directly underneath it. So you put a water block down, put a grill or a bridge
Al: playing on top of it. Sprinkler on top of that and then you've got the 60 spots. You can do it like that, yeah.
Kevin: that how it works. So it's not just automatic. You can't just pop down sprinkler, wherever.
Al: No, it needs to be so you need to have water within the five blocks for the sprinkler to work. But
Al: because you can put the sprinkler on top of a grate, you can put it on top of the water rather than
Al: and having the water wasting another speed.
Al: So you can have those 60 spaces purely for crops.
Kevin: That's cool
Al: However, what I realized is the sprinkler effects the level that it's on plus the block above.
Al: Sorry, the level it's above plus the level it's below.
Al: It doesn't actually do the level that it's on.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: It does the one below and the one above.
Al: So you can actually have a sprinkler doing a hole that those 60
Al: And then also,
Al: 61 above it, see, you can have 121 slots that a sprinkler is affecting.
Kevin: It was the thing I love about this free book go ahead
Al: The one complication about that is that obviously then you have a one block height between the crops.
Al: So you can't just like walk into them and cut them all down, but you will know Kevin that you can upgrade your cut
Al: and have like, you can hold it.
Kevin: Yeah, the wind scythe, yeah, and then Kirby and Hale, it's I hate this, yeah, well, that works.
Al: So you can legitimately have 121 blocks powered by one spring claire.
Al: I love it. It's fantastic. It's so good.
Al: I kind of hate how much time I spent figuring all that out.
Kevin: It's diabolical.
Al: I was trying to see if there was a better way to do it,
Al: better way to do it, but that is as far as I can see the more
Al: most blocks you can have with one sprinkler. I was
Kevin: Okay, question, how on earth did you discover that it was upon?
Al: completely accidental. I ended up accidentally putting my
Al: sprinkler on one layer below and like I just I just
Al: missed clicked and it went on a level below and I noticed that it
Al: hit the block above it and I was like oh this changes things.
Al: Yeah, and that was when I started and
Al: was, you're right, if you think about it, it does make sense because of course water is going to hit above as well as below, but I didn't think it would work as well as it did.
Kevin: Yeah, it's ridiculous.
Kevin: What's really funny to me is that you only
Kevin: get the one sprinkler.
Kevin: You know, for people who haven't progressed enough,
Kevin: those years for a second, once you
Kevin: were built the Pokemon Center, you
Kevin: can get the 3D printer, and then you
Kevin: know, use that to copy and paste more.
Kevin: But I don't have a sprinkler recipe to you.
Al: Do not I believe there is one people are saying they've found it through water sparkles
Kevin: Yeah, all the good stuffs in the water sparklers
Al: So I think yeah, I think it's just I think it's just random and eventually you'll get it
Al: But yeah, I mean realistically five five in the end game five of that polka metal or whatever it's called
Kevin: Pretty sure down days
Al: It's not really that much right like you can get a lot of that really quickly
Kevin: Yeah, that's not, yeah, you can get it easy.
Al: So yeah, I, I, I, I, but the thing is,
Al: I also don't feel the need to have too many sprinklers, right? Because you get,
Al: especially with my 120 one crops, like you don't really need a huge number of crops, because I find
Al: that because you, if you've got the grower Pokemon as well, you get things pretty quickly,
Kevin: Yeah, well, yeah, I mean like I like I said I just I never like aside from the occasional quest where they specifically asked me to
Al: like you just end up with a lot of food quite easily.
Kevin: I really haven't planted much of anything. Maybe the occasional plot. I'll try filling it out, but anyways, but all the stuff they give you on the ground is more than enough to you know get around.
Al: So here's my question for you then, because obviously the next thing we need to talk about is cooking because you do the farming for the cooking.
Kevin: around. Um. Mm hmm.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah. Actually. Yeah. There's another used. Yeah. Uh, so Pokemon when they ask, uh, as you know, when, uh, that they request. Yeah. Well, I thought it was specific. It was usually a flavor. Um, like in the main game Pokemon.
Al: I mean technically you can just eat the food if you want to restore your stamina, but realistically, it's so much more efficient.
Al: How much cooking have you been, oh, what have I been?
Al: Oh, because sometimes the last first specific foods, yeah, yeah.
Al: Yes, a flavor, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: And berries have flavors, right? And so the instinct because of that as a Pokemon, and I'm like, okay, when somebody wants a sweet flavor, I have to get them a picture, Barry. Here's the kicker. The berries are really hard to find. You get leopard berry and one other very other berries. There's a couple's hidden and scattered throughout the lane. I think you can find some on tree mileons, sometimes maybe. Um, but like.
Al: Yeah, you can also, there are dev islands you can go to and take pictures and print the route.
Kevin: Yeah, or that right multiplayer connecting on
Al: Yeah.
Kevin: line you can get it from other people right but in general it's not easy if you're just playing by yourself like me I am not connected online you know I do not have all the berries right now anyway it's going back to the point okay so what do you do when the Pokemon is asking for something you don't have the
Kevin: berries well it turns out in the game doesn't tell you this I read about it online the other crumbs have the same flavors like I think
Kevin: the carrot the only crop you don't plant that you just randomly pick up
Kevin: from the ground on watered ground it'll sprout it mentions spicy flavor and I guess that's kind of the clue that the other crops and foods have flavors that will also satisfy the requirements for
Kevin: Pokemon to improve their comfort level and that's really important it's really easy to do to and it gives you a big boost.
Al: I would I
Al: Will say that's some white people nonsense saying that carrot is spicy
Kevin: Oh my gosh. Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. I think the tomato sour too. It is in my people nonsense here, right?
Al: I saw someone you think a whole raw leak and they were like it's so spicy and I'm like what are you you don't know
Al: What spicy beans clearly what are you talking about in spicy?
Kevin: maybe and it's funny because like whatever buried the spicy one supposedly
Al: I think you just mean a taste.
Al: This is bad. Don't eat a raw leak.
Al: It's not spicy.
Kevin: really spicy apparently that exists but they just I don't know they don't know
Al: I also found when we talked about the water affecting it in all three dimensions, that's actually not true because I tried building a farm above the sea and that doesn't work.
Kevin: how the human world works
Kevin: They're getting later.
Al: So if you have a block, you have to have it. Because if you put it on the...
Al: then the block above the water, there's a gap between it and the water. And if you put it one block down, then it gets rid of the water that was there and it only gets affected by the water that's at the sides of it.
Al: So if you then make a three by three, if you put a three by three above the water, none of it gets watered. If you put a three by three, the next layer down, the middle one does not get watered.
Kevin: Well, did you try this?
Kevin: You said you tried this at the ocean.
Kevin: Did you try it anywhere else?
Al: Uh, I did not try anywhere else but the water...
Al: should be the same.
Kevin: Does it?
Kevin: Because there are different types of water in the game,
Kevin: very distinctly.
Al: Yes, but they're still they still have that none of them. They all still have that gap above them the the air gap
Kevin: Yeah, I know I'm just wondering does ocean water, you know water pumps or does it not? That's not the thing. I'm wondering
Al: It does it does yeah because when I put it when I put it when I put it one layer down
Kevin: It does okay, okay
Al: And it was essentially in the water, right? Which is the same as being next to a stream
Kevin: Mm-hmm
Al: Then they were being the outer ones were being watered but the middle one was not
Kevin: Yes, right about the water sure
Kevin: Okay, well dark. Okay. Can't do it. You can't have your underground water system like minecraft, I guess
Al: No, the underground water will only work for sprinklers.
Kevin: Okay, you can interesting
Al: So that does count.
Al: The air gap is fine for the sprinkler because it's within the sprinkler just needs it within
Al: five blocks, whereas the actual dirt needs it touching it.
Kevin: Yeah
Al: And because there's that air gap, you can't, it's not tightening.
Kevin: Okay, it's fascinating
Al: Yes, I think that's all the watering. So let's talk about cooking. How much have you been cooking?
Kevin: Okay, but going back to your question
Kevin: Yeah, yes, as needed basis
Kevin: basically it's when I go to a dream island I'll whip up a couple of verse by and large I
Kevin: Have not done. I don't think I've done any at like the bread or the salad since then
Al: Fair enough. So, so I guess just. So. Yeah, that's fair. So I guess a simple, uh, somebody,
Kevin: Probably because I haven't hit that level of decorating but
Al: there's a four different cookings, or is it five? I forget. There's, there's different cooking
Al: things you can cook. You can cook steak. You can cook soup. You can cook bread. You can cook a salad.
Kevin: And solid yep, I think that's it
Al: Is that it says four? And each of them, each of them, not only refills your stamina,
Al: but it also pairs up one of your things. So, uh, the, the steak, it pairs up your rock
Kevin: when your ability is yeah.
Al: smash, the bread, it pairs up cart, I think. No, is it salad carries up. And what's salad then?
Kevin: That's correct. Yes, it is it's cut salad is leafish
Al: That's what it is. And then a soup is water gun. Now, what I really like about this, obviously,
Al: the powering up the, the thing that allows you to, uh, do more. So rock smash, you can break harder rocks
Al: all rocks slightly quicker. Um, the cut allows you to, like, as we mentioned, you get a, a longer, a wider
Al: area that you can cut. So you can cut five ahead rather than just the one in front of you. Um,
Al: leafage, you can, you can cut hard. Yes, you can cut hard. You can cut metal.
Kevin: You can also cut harder things.
Al: Imagine that. The leafage, um, allows you to grow in our, in the, in the plus shape and also grow
Al: other things like you can grow.
Al: and then water gun, and water gun, I don't think I've actually done water gun.
Kevin: And vines, I believe.
Al: Does that give you a wider thing?
Kevin: If I have it either.
Kevin: Yep, no.
Kevin: I'm going to guess an increased radius.
Kevin: Yeah, that would be my guess.
Al: But what I really like about this is not only does it do that and not only does it refill your stamina
Al: But it essentially gives you extra stamina, right? So let me explain this and if you have
Al: No stamina at all and you've not done any eating of any of the food that you've cooked and you eat a steak
Al: It will fully restore your stamina
Al: But it also essentially gives you extra stamina for rock smash as well. You have a fool
Al: Bard of stamina, which is powered up and then you also then have all your standard stamina as well
Kevin: Mm-hmm
Al: So you've essentially got two bars for your rock smash and then if you
Kevin: Yeah, but only one is powered up
Al: Only one is powered up the second one's not powered up, but that's then separate for all the other ones so if you eat all of the things
Al: you have a
Al: A lot of stamina you have a lot of pp because your cut has to your cut has an extra
Kevin: for hot.
Al: One your rock smash has your next one your water gun has next one your leafage and they don't go away even when you run out of your normal stamina
Al: If you power up all four of them and then you completely use up your powered up rock smash and then your normal
Al: pp your other three are all still full and then even the next day
Kevin: Yeah, power ups are separate
Al: They're still full as well
Al: So like if you don't use the powered up leafage or the powered up cut a lot
Al: You can eat one and then like just use it whenever you need to use it and you don't have to worry about
Al: Getting rid of it or redoing it, which I really like so it's like if you're going I'm gonna do loads of loads of rock smashing
Al: Which is what I was doing like I was completely flattening the rocky rocky ridges as I was called I can't remember I
Al: Was completely flattening as whole section of that and using rock smash and then I got bored of that and I stopped when I ran out of
Al: stamina I still have all the other three moves. I still have stamina for because I I
Kevin: Yeah chef you know when you meet chef then they and dirt dente and they introduce you to
Al: Had them powered up from previous things as well, which is
Kevin: well cooking thing like of course you get to you do the salad and the bread and the burger off
Kevin: kind of part of the tutorial um the the leafage buff I had that for like the full week it just goes
Kevin: away when you finish with the baby. Yeah so it that is very nice to have snob at the time.
Kevin: You think it's just when you finish when you use it up um yeah so yeah you're right and well
Kevin: okay malls or again we're all in the rock you're just so you know it's not even spoken which
Kevin: gonna say it so in rocky bridges you get another ability the graveler ability um which is actually
Kevin: roll out um which are you turning to a graveler and you roll you can roll around and as you roll
Kevin: to rocks and other things you you break them up instead of then you know
Kevin: single or double block targeting the rocks mash you can just start going day on on anything pretty these hamburger will in fact higher up gravel or so that's a very nice touch.
Kevin: You can just start hunting basically as grab learn and rolling around on various laundry mileines.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's also just fun. Like, I'm enjoying just going,
Kevin: It is fine. It is, it's, it's screw.
Al: I have, I have a mine, uh, all the entire perimeter of rocky ridges, um, which I'm planning on
Kevin: You're racetrack.
Al: putting in our, uh, a mine cart into. Yeah, pretty much. It's like that just, I went to one point
Al: forward until it wouldn't let me go any farther. And then went right until it wouldn't let me go any
Al: farther and then back and then left. And I ended up back at the beginning again and just have this single
Al: tunnel going the entire perimeter of it.
Kevin: All that solid, that's good.
Kevin: How like that?
Kevin: That's good.
Kevin: Thank you, build your Disney World train around.
Kevin: I, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: That's great.
Kevin: And then the pie is great and we're,
Kevin: finishes the hamburger so fast though.
Kevin: So if you're going to grab what you've got,
Kevin: I could have a whole bunch.
Al: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But that's the thing, like I have so many of those, those, those beans.
Kevin: Beans, yup.
Al: I still don't understand why they called it steak. Burger makes so much more sense,
Al: right? Because people make bean burgers. That's the thing that people make.
Kevin: Is it not it?
Al: It's not, it's, it's no, it's steak. It's called steak.
Kevin: It is burger, isn't it?
Kevin: Hi.
Kevin: Swipe, swipe, swipe.
Kevin: I'll dang.
Kevin: I think it shows how much I play it.
Kevin: I guess.
Kevin: Well, yeah, I don't know, man.
Kevin: It is weird to call it steak, but it is what I guess.
Kevin: But let's, let's talk about the talking about the cooking,
Kevin: but the actual mechanics to get there, right?
Kevin: 'Cause you need love a little.
Kevin: First of all, you basically need a separate implement for every recipe.
Kevin: The salad needs an ing board which you can just place wherever it's just a board or used to craft and place.
Kevin: The bread for cut actually requires a little more.
Kevin: You need to make a bread of an egg recipe that you give you and then you need to have a fire Pokemon come over and actually light the oven for you.
Kevin: Um.
Al: Although I don't think it ever goes out there. I think it's just a one-time. They light it and that's it lit
Kevin: It is not.
Kevin: I believe that's correct.
Kevin: Yes.
Al: At least mine has never gone out
Kevin: Um.
Al: So presumably if you were to break if you were to if you were to pick it up and then put it down you'd have to really
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: As far as I know.
Kevin: Mhm.
Kevin: That is correct.
Kevin: I have done that.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: So.
Kevin: Part is true.
Kevin: Um.
Kevin: The soup.
Kevin: You need a specific pot for it.
Kevin: Oh, again, that's just a recipe.
Kevin: But the both the soup and the.
Al: There's actually a couple of different parts you can use for the, I have three different
Kevin: Well, yeah.
Kevin: Really?
Kevin: Wow.
Al: parts that I can use for soup and they are like different shapes of parts but they
Kevin: Really? Wow.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: all make soup.
Kevin: Well, that's cool.
Kevin: I have not found more pots.
Al: Yeah.
Kevin: I found one other pan, but not another pot.
Kevin: Well, I digress, but the pot and the pan,
Kevin: which is the soup and the steak or burger respectively,
Kevin: you need to create the vessel.
Kevin: Also, you need, you need over some sort of heat source,
Kevin: which is either a campfire,
Kevin: which again, you need a fire.
Al: I didn't realize you could put it on a campfire. That's fun.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, he get a fuck
Kevin: again, you get the fire poke won't light it up and you can put it right over a campfire or the stove
Kevin: which is a
Kevin: Again, like a furniture decoration items. I don't think I have the roof before it
Al: Yeah, which is just a free one that you can get when you when you're with
Al: Chef Dante anyway, right? Like, yeah, I've not actually this is why I didn't know you could do
Kevin: Yeah chef dente
Al: of a campfire because I just have the one from when I was when I was helping him out and I was like,
Kevin: Yeah
Al: well, why I'm just going to bulk cook my my steaks here. I don't need it anywhere else.
Kevin: And it makes sense cuz like chef dente is like it's a fully stock kitchen basically like all the stations are set up there or you set them up as part of the quest
Kevin: Um, and yeah, no that I mean that makes sense to go to rock here. It's just just to do all your cooking. You want it once um
Al: So, I like, so here's the question for you. Who's kitchen, do you think?
Kevin: Uh, you don't think it's the person part to discuss like chef dente's owner body person
Al: Do they see who that was?
Kevin: They don't give them a name
Kevin: Oh, are you asking like their identity like who I think there are? Oh, I had not thought about them. Oh, oh, I do you think it's Brock?
Al: I don't think it's Brock, but I do have a theory. Do you want to hear my theory?
Kevin: I don't think so either
Kevin: Tell me tell me my theory tell me the theory
Al: So this is this is this is anime styles. So this is a character that I don't think is in the
Al: games, but I'm gonna I'm gonna go with this anyway, right? Do you remember? I can't remember
Al: if it's silly and or killian. I can't remember in the black and white anime, the connoisseur.
Kevin: Yeah, so Ian. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Al: I'm pretty sure...
Al: You know, that's some point he meets and has fun, like enjoy spending time with Brock.
Kevin: Yeah, I see there's an episode. Yeah
Al: And so, he's also a cook, right? Like that's one of his things.
Kevin: Yeah, is it their child?
Al: And so, my theory...
Al: Well, no, no, just my theory would just be that he goes and lives in, in...
Al: Butte, and starts up a restaurant in butte, and that is what that...
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: That's is the yeah
Kevin: Why I do wonder as far as I know the humans
Kevin: I haven't been able to fight any like in PCOP that humans mentioned as part of the story or background
Kevin: I haven't been able to pin any out of it in any of them down. That's a fun idea
Kevin: There is I don't need to call it a hint, but
Kevin: does you do chef then he's like
Kevin: secondary quest. I don't know if you
Al: I don't know, give me a clue as to what it was about.
Kevin: When it triggers
Kevin: There's another they ask you to make like another recipe after it's a quest line
Al: I can't remember.
Kevin: No, I can't remember it's after you clear rocky ridges or what you have to make it farther in maybe you have to clear the
Kevin: The final quest line in the fourth area
Kevin: Because a couple of less lines trigger for the NPCs at a certain point. Oh, there's one for Pikachu to
Kevin: but
Kevin: Yeah, well anyway, so when you
Kevin: When you do the secondary quest line for shift and they you learn a little more about their backstory in the human and
Kevin: There's calm I like I said, I haven't thought about it as much but there might be a little more in there
Kevin: But but yeah, no, it's it's you get to that's fun to do more stuff for sure than today
Kevin: It's probably not that I think about it's probably when you just clear certain quests in that fourth area
Kevin: Yeah, but but yeah, no, it is interesting to think about who's a restaurant that is
Kevin: Yeah, I don't know I
Kevin: Trying to build up the restaurant again, but it's hard it requires so many different blocks and pieces
Kevin: I've got a lot of them now, but but yeah, I think it's it's fun though
Kevin: That whole area because it's a big you like kitchen cooking area
Al: Yeah. Multiple different rooms. I think what I'm finding interesting in that area in particular is
Al: trying to decide which bits are kind of how they're meant to be and which bits are clearly just
Al: part of the, you know, volcano erupting, right? Because obviously some of it is just ash and that's
Kevin: Yeah, right. Yeah, yeah.
Al: clearly just from the volcano. But some of it is clearly rock that is hardened from the volcano
Al: eruption and like which bits do we get rid of and which bits do you keep? Because that the restaurant
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: is built into.
Al: into rock.
Kevin: The mountain. Yeah.
Al: And so it's like, was that always the case?
Al: Or is this, is this part in lava?
Kevin: It's supposed to be a freestanding building. Ooh, that's a good question.
Al: Like, yeah, exactly.
Al: Like, it's just interesting.
Al: I don't know how I feel about all that.
Al: Because obviously, like, there's a specific thing in that area
Al: that we're not going to talk about because it's too fun to have
Al: it spoiled for you when you find it.
Kevin: You mean the best place in the game?
Al: But like that obviously, yes, the best place in the game.
Al: in the game. That is obviously not meant to be, you know, undergrad.
Kevin: Yeah, it's very clear where there was not supposed to be a thing in that there are walls that
Al: Yeah. Exactly. But the question is, was that, was that, was that because it got a land, what's the word?
Kevin: issues
Al: Land slip, can't remember the word, landslide on top of it, or like, did the ground collapse and it fell into the ground?
Al: Like, there's so many different possibilities there as well.
Kevin: that's a good question. You're right, you're right, I didn't consider that, but that might be the case because it's it's really stranded, why I don't see like how you get from there to the rest of the you know the other area easily, you know, that's a good point, you might have collapsed.
Al: exactly well well see if you see if you build a tunnel directly from the entrance straight on you come out at the area with all the farming farming stuff.
Kevin: yeah yeah the outside area yeah really oh that's fascinating you know I got to think
Al: So it is actually the same level as that stuff.
Kevin: because if you look at it from like above right if like you float around or you know you hop around
Kevin: on the cliffs or the ground above like it's just like a hole you know it looks like just a crater
Kevin: kind of so I don't know I think i'm curious that's a good question um oh that's a good question
Kevin: oh man yeah the rocky ridge is a fun air like it's kind of hard like
Kevin: i'm struggling like trying to think where to place all these homes and stuff but
Kevin: it has a lot of cool stuff all just need to where people in caves more
Al: I've been building some homes on underground so I have a house built for all my firebook
Al: on next to where you find the first furnace.
Kevin: Yeah. The fire jail, I need to show you the video. I saw literally someone like an underground
Al: That's where I've got all them living and it's, you know, in some, no, it's a house.
Al: They are not in jail.
Al: They can come and go as they please.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
Kevin: basement, all the fire Pokemon just furnaces everywhere.
Al: Yeah, but yeah, I'm doing a bit of just tearing down the mountain and I'm doing a bit of actually building things into what is already there. And I kind of like a bit of both in that area.
Kevin: Yeah
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I get that okay two things one a warning to you
Kevin: Careful when that digging the mountain. There are random lava spots people have painfully found that out
Kevin: Or they just we had something and just it's low just starts and destroys everything
Kevin: But the second thing and there's more general topic
Kevin: This is a sort of conundrum I
Kevin: I'm personally having, right? When I'm restoring these places like do I want to restore them or do I want to improve them, right?
Kevin: There's like the first area, withering the waste on the spacious city, and you know that's the one people being
Kevin: going crazy creating these like you know big just little streets you know building side by sides and
Kevin: everything's planted in walkways and flowers everywhere which is nice it's lovely and beautiful
Kevin: but there's the Pokemon panemy says put it's fuchsia city I know what that looks like in my head, right?
Kevin: Like I know the way I kind of want to fix it up to look like that again and anyways and so I'm having this
Kevin: kind of like to dilemma but in all the areas not just though anything one and that's what I think
Kevin: makes rocky ridges so hard for me because it's like the ecological changes or impact from the
Kevin: stuff is hard to separate from what should have been there like you were talking about the restaurant
Kevin: right is it supposed to be built in or is it covered by stuff I don't know but yeah it's fun though
Kevin: it's you know it's still for me but it's something I like to figure out but yeah that's good stuff
Kevin: This game's awesome now, right? That's funny.
Al: Yeah, I think this is a really good game, like this is, I think, a generational good game.
Al: Why was thinking, so I was earlier today, I thought of a question that I want to ask you.
Al: And that is, remind me what the thing that you found most annoying about Animal Crossing New Horizons was.
Kevin: Oh, lack of personality. Basically, the villagers were kind of dry hell.
Al: Yeah. No tell me.
Al: That this game doesn't do that a million times better.
Kevin: There are 300 Pokemon in this game. That's the Pokedex spoilers for people.
Kevin: Every one of those not only has a personality, but has the correct personality that you would
Kevin: expect from the Pokemon knowing their entry and then their characteristics incredible.
Al: And yes, and can you remember what my biggest annoyance
Kevin: Lots of generic stuff like, "Hey, dido, you're the best ever, whatever." But also, the Paris Bulbasaur conversation.
Kevin: No multi-crafting.
Al: I know. No, it was the limitations in terraforming, right, that you can only go to up and you
Kevin: Yes, yes.
Al: can't expand your island. And this is just like, has basically no limitations to the
Al: terraforming. And like, we know they're not the same game. And you know, we got, I got
Kevin: It has zero. I'm scared to know what the limits are.
Al: night by people saying it's like a animal crossing it's an animal crossing
Kevin: Yeah, one way better!
Al: and Minecraft level but I just I feel like I have finally come to the
Al: conclusion I don't like animal crossing you horizon and why actually why I
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, and that's correct. Yeah, no, that's fair
Al: actually wanted was this game and I really interested to see where animal
Al: crossing goes does it try and do more in that sort of area or does it go back to
Al: to the new leaf when it's less about creating your text.
Al: More about living in it.
Kevin: well I mean you know you know my opinion like I mean
Kevin: the game started off as the town simulator that's
Kevin: was it sport it should go back anyways but that's just me I bet you're right it's
Kevin: interesting to see and i'll raise you one bloke let's assume they keep trying
Kevin: to go the sandbox decorate terraform whatever you know how do you go further
Kevin: like because it feels like the only next step is to go minecraft or you know or
Kevin: or this game, right?
Kevin: Because I can press builder to copy whatever.
Kevin: I have to be really funny to see any of us in the
Kevin: of builders game, um, yeah, no, that's a good.
Kevin: That's interesting to see, but you know,
Kevin: we'll find out and decade or so.
Al: Because I feel like they need to do one or the other, right? Like they can't, they can't,
Kevin: Switch three.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: I don't think they can stay with what they have. They either need to go forward and do more or they
Kevin: No.
Al: need to go back and make it more curated than it was. And it will be interesting to see what they do.
Kevin: Yeah.
Al: I mean, from a, what animal crossing is, I feel like they should go back to the more curated
Al: way of doing things. I don't want that. That will make it less of a game that I will want to play,
Al: But that's fine, but the real
Al: problem is I don't think I was going to sell as well. Right? And so do they make a better
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Al: game that's going to sell less? Or do they keep the game as is and sell more? But people are more disappointed
Al: with it? That's a really difficult. Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, what a weird paradox now. But I mean, you know, it's not just am crossing. I think
Kevin: a lot of these long standing franchises have been running into that. You know, trying to
Kevin: appeal to everyone, trying to sell more to wider audience. Yeah, you lose sight of your original
Kevin: thing or whatever. Um, you know, it's interest. Well, we'll see. We'll see. Um,
Al: We shall we shall see but yeah this game this game good. I like this game
Kevin: Okay, here, here, I have one question for you, right? Okay, we have pallet down blank slate
Kevin: comments, right? If you built a farm there, how would you structure it? Would you do multi-level
Kevin: sprinklers everywhere?
Al: I think I would go multi-layer, even if you're not going to go the multi-layer sprinkler,
Al: even if you're not going to have like the two layers with one sprinkler, I actually think the
Al: best way to do it is have your sprinkler underneath because then you've got 61 rather than 60,
Al: and it keeps the sprinkler out of the way. It's the same sort of thing as hiding the utility
Al: poles underground. I think it just makes everything slightly tidier and allows you to do things
Al: in a nicer way. Obviously, I think,
Al: that some people will probably prefer even more nice looking,
Al: in which case they're probably not trying to minmax crops,
Al: and so therefore they will do something with rivers and stuff like that because it looks nicer.
Al: Like, just this big five by five diamond isn't the best looking thing in and of itself, right?
Kevin: Yeah, it's not very
Al: So do you care about aesthetics or do you care about minmax and crops? That's the question.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, you're right. I mean, yeah, you're automation man. So yeah, that makes sense
Al: I am.
Kevin: See if they were for me like depending on the size right because if you go big like it's maybe not as
Kevin: feasible, but for me like as we know when you incorporate monsters or
Kevin: Whatever other people like I like to see them get to work like you know
Kevin: Environment, so I would probably
Kevin: Set up a field and try to set up in only two water Pokemon two grass Pokemon on each side or something
Kevin: Or we know one big house with all of them and just you know have the farm housing to work every day
Kevin: I wish there was a Pokemon that would harvest one of the things for missing. That's okay. Save for PCOPIA 2
Al: Yes, yeah, you're right. I can't believe, I can't believe I haven't talked about this already, but yeah, it's bizarre because I thought that's what the
Al: gatherability was, but no, gather gather will not pick crops for you. They will only pick up ones that are already on the ground.
Kevin: Yeah, I thought so too.
Kevin: Stop on the ground, yeah.
Al: And that is really frustrating, because I was like, this is going to be the best way to do it. I'm going to have the two layers with one sprinkler.
Al: And then I just make sure I've got a small Pokemon with gather who can then go underneath and harvest it all.
Kevin: Yeah, hey, it's okay. It's okay all these week areas. That's that's room for PCOPIA too. That's what it is
Al: and I don't even need to think about it, but nope.
Al: That's not a thing I can do, which is very frustrating.
Al: Yeah, I mean, it's interesting because I wonder whether they will do, you know, more updates
Kevin: We'll get underwater building
Al: that have other things in it or whether the DLC will just be like more areas because I'm
Al: assuming that it's coming, right?
Al: Like, I'm assuming there's more areas coming in DLC and the question is, will that just
Al: be new areas or will also add new features as well?
Kevin: I'm, I genuinely think like, I think.
Kevin: 'Cause this, as we've kind of, you know, explored in this,
Kevin: sort of the, these systems are deep.
Kevin: Like, I'm sure, you know, like voting and testing
Kevin: for these things is very, to say the least.
Kevin: I don't think we're gonna get any big, like,
Kevin: an additional, it's formed like ability,
Kevin: and I don't think we're gonna get underwater building,
Kevin: and I don't think maybe we could get our list
Kevin: like an ability. Maybe I could see it.
Kevin: But generally speaking, I think if, you know, assuming like you would get DLC, it's just going to be areas with more mostly, you know, quest lines and aesthetic stuff, but I don't, I genuinely think they're talking about POCOPIA 2 at this point, because you know, this has been run away, success financially and critically.
Kevin: So yeah, that's what I thought.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, look, I would, I would buy in a heartbeat, right? Like, I think, um,
Kevin: Pre-ordering now doesn't exist, I don't care.
Al: like the, the, the, the story alone has been so much fun. Like, even if I stop playing this game,
Kevin: I have it in a jar.
Al: because sometimes that happens with me, right? Like, I get, I get done with something once I've
Al: actually, uh, finished a story, right? But even if that I would, I think it's been 100% worth
Al: the money because of the fund.
Al: And it doesn't even really need to do much to be like a really interesting and compelling story.
Kevin: Yeah, it's interesting, right? Because the story doesn't happen. Like, there's no actual
Kevin: significant plot aside from repairing a few structures. Like, what's happening in game?
Kevin: Like, you the player learns stuff, they're reading and notes, but there is no
Al: It's... Exactly.
Kevin: ongoing plot with the character with Ditto or Tengrof. And it's probably the deepest
Kevin: to one of the deepest stories, Pokemon has it.
Kevin: So it's fascinating, good ending, good credit, slow that sequence.
Al: Absolutely. We'll talk about that in a future episode.
Al: All right. Well, I think that's us for this episode.
Al: Um, thank you, Kevin, for joining me to talk about farming.
Kevin: bueno. Thank you, all for having me on. Look, I'm just in the pokopi world. That's it. I'm done, people. I mean, there's good
Al: Um, is there anything you would like to tell the audience?
Al: [laughter]
Kevin: videos and good memes out there, pokopia. Everyone wants this place to get human. So, you know,
Kevin: I'm out there. I'm poopa press, whatever. But that's it for me.
Al: You can find the podcast on Tumblr and on blue sky, as previously said, you can send us feedback
Al: there or from our website, harbucson.club. You can tell us what your favorite weird story thing
Al: that happens in Pocopia is. You can also tell us what you want us to dive more into.
Kevin: I don't mean anything about PCOPY, my DMs are open.
Al: this episode where we're specifically talking about farming and cooking,
Al: because there's so much in the game, and we could probably talk about anything for an hour in this game,
Kevin: We haven't discussed habitats. That's a whole episode on its own.
Al: right?
Al: Yeah. That is a whole episode.
Al: You could also, on our website, find links to everything to do with the podcast,
Al: including a link to our patreon, patreon.com/thspod, where you can find
Al: are bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: I wonder if we need to do a PCOPIA bonus episode, what would we do if we were doing a PCOPIA?
Kevin: Well, I tell you, well, I feel like we
Kevin: Depending like just
Kevin: Get a whole bunch of people and just have another like roundtable
Kevin: Discussion of pukopia. Really like you know, I'm here talking about it and I will continue to talk about it
Kevin: But you know, we got another folks
Kevin: Hayslin and oh she's she's jamming in it
Al: Something like, "Oh, how about we could do a favorite Pokemon?"
Kevin: It's something like that. Yeah, oh
Kevin: That's that's the
Kevin: Aside from the NPC, we ever...
Kevin: We both agree as the greatest character of the game. There's some good contenders out there.
Al: [laughter]
Al: Oh, yeah, for sure, for sure.
Al: You can also get access to our Slack and complain to us there.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can tag us.
Al: And we have to read that.
Al: [laughter]
Al: All right, I think finish.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Now I was thinking tag us directly, call us out in plain directly.
Kevin: I'll did a pretty good call on me.
Kevin: Oh, shit, you can share just four messages.
Al: - If you want to always talk about joining this lack, I think that's everything. Thank you again for joining
Kevin: I'll be thinking well done.
Kevin: I got a good kick out of it.
Kevin: I was right to us, Dan, by what I said.
Kevin: Find her.
Al: me. Thank you, listeners, for listening. Until next time, have a good Beanstake harvest.
Kevin: Thank you, huh?
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Alma Henry, with support from our patrons, including our
Kevin: Have a good, huh?
Kevin: Yeah, you go.
Theme Tune: pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Alisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Al: You can't make steak from beans but you can make burgers from beans and bean burgers are good.
Al: Go eat some bean burgers. I like a bean burger.
Kevin: Oh, yeah, there you go.
Kevin: Or potato's, I guess.
Al: I also like potatoes. Potatoes are good in every
Kevin: You're a vodka, yeah, I do like to do this.
Kevin: They are.
Kevin: We didn't even talk about how could I have flavors and cooking.
Al: really change much. The what?
Kevin: It doesn't matter, but there's a whole cooking deck for you.
Kevin: You just add flavors, go, go, and you have no idea how.
Kevin: Well, actually, there's a few recipes on them.
Kevin: No, it's, whatever.
Kevin: Go cook them.
Kevin: Don't find out what happened.
Kevin: You put chest of very in your soup.